The President:
Hi, everybody.
Three years ago this weekend, we
put in place tough new rules
of the road for the financial
sector so that irresponsible
behavior on the part of the few
could never again cause a crisis
that harms millions of
middle-class families.
As part of that reform, we
set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, the
first-ever independent consumer
watchdog with one job: to
protect families from that
sort of behavior.
Two years ago, I nominated
a man named Rich Cordray,
a former attorney
general from Ohio,
to run this consumer
protection bureau.
But Republicans in the Senate
refused to give him a simple
up-or-down vote, not because
they didn't think he was the
right person for the job, but
because they didn't like the law
that set up the consumer
watchdog in the first place.
So last year, I acted on my own
to put him in charge -- because
without a director, the CFPB
couldn't use all the tools
at its disposal to protect
consumers from shady mortgage
lenders, or unscrupulous
credit reporting agencies,
or predatory lenders who
targeted veterans and seniors.
And I'm pleased to say that Rich Cordray was finally confirmed
this week by a bipartisan vote.
Because of the work that's been
done at the CFPB over the past
two years, today, mortgage
lenders, student lenders,
payday lenders, and credit
reporting and debt collection
agencies all face
greater scrutiny.
And if they don't
play by the rules,
you now have somewhere to go
to get some measure of justice.
In fact, the CFPB has already
addressed more than 175,000
complaints from every state.
Today, as part of the CFPB's
"Know Before You Owe" efforts,
students and their parents can
get a simple report with the
information they need to make
informed decisions before taking
out student loans -- and more
than 700 colleges have stepped
up to make this information
clear and transparent.
And if you've noticed that some
credit card forms are actually
easier to understand
than they used to be,
that's because of the work that
Rich's team and others
in the Administration have done.
Today, veterans have the tools
they need to defend against
dishonest lenders and mortgage
brokers who try to prey on them
when they come home.
Seniors are better protected
from someone who sees their
homes or retirement
savings as an easy target.
And thanks to the hard
work of folks at the CFPB,
so far six million Americans
have gotten more than
$400 million in refunds from
companies that engaged
in unscrupulous practices.
That's money we didn't have
the power to recover before.
You know, we've come a long way
over the past
four and a half years.
Our economy's growing.
Our businesses have created 7.2
million new jobs
in the past 40 months.
We've locked in new safeguards
to protect against another
crisis and end
bailouts for good.
And even though
more work remains,
our financial system is more
fair and much more sound
than it was.
We've still got a long way to go
to restore the sense of security
that too many middle-class
families are still
fighting to rebuild.
But if we keep moving forward
with our eyes fixed on that
North Star of a
growing middle class,
then I'm confident we'll
get to where we need to go.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.